That's what I expected.
Hello.
Hey, Charlie.
Hey.
Welcome.
Welcome to the YouTube stream for the moment and happy to have everyone here who is here
live and just in a second on the podcast.
Exciting to be back together.
Yeah.
Thanks so much for having me back on the show.
I really appreciate it.
Yes.
It's really great to have you back on the show.
So you and your team are doing awesome work these days
and making a big dent in Python.
Thank you.
Hopefully a good dent, I guess.
Yeah, I guess you could make a good dent or a bad dent.
But no, I meant that in a good way.
Definitely in a good way.
I appreciate it.
Yeah.
Yeah, I think excellent work.
It's really, it's kind of surprising how some of these tools
just come in and just catch fire in a way.
I don't know how you felt about it, but it seemed more than I would have expected.
I mean, I did not expect your things to be popular,
but they became really popular really quickly.
Yeah.
I mean, it was different, you know, with Roth and with uv,
the sort of context around it has been pretty different because with Roth,
like when I started working on Roth, no one knew who I was
or had any reason to care about what I was doing.
And the project just grew, you know, grew over time.
And then I knew that when we were working on uv, like there would just be a lot more of an expectation around like anything we build.
Yeah.
The spotlight was already shining, right?
A little bit.
Yeah.
And that's, that's, that's awesome.
Cause it means our stuff gets traction.
Also a lot of, it comes with a lot of responsibility.
It means anything we release for, you know, we're kind of committed to maintaining.
So like, yeah, it's, it's, it's been very interesting.
Like this, this kind of release cadence versus what happened with Ruff.
Well, you have more people behind the scenes helping you out, right?
I do. Yeah. Thankfully.
Yeah. Tell us, you know, maybe,
maybe that's a good place to just kick off our conversation is, you know,
we're talking a bit about Ruff for everyone,
but and Ruff was the thing that really launched all of this,
but you started a company Astral.
Yep. Got some funding behind it.
Yep. Building awesome tools.
Yeah, just give people the broad view of your world these days.
Yeah, totally.
So yeah, I started, this all started when I released Ruff, probably like a year and a
half ago, maybe at this point.
And at that point, it was really not just a side project for me, but very much an exploratory
project.
Like I was kind of curious about building faster Python tooling, really, and curious about getting
better at Rust and all this stuff. And Ruff, when I released it, it is a linter, but it kind of
brings a lot of different tools together. So if you're familiar with Flaygate or PyLint, but also
Black, Ruff is designed to kind of bundle all those tools together. So it can detect problems with
your code. It can fix them automatically. It can reformat your code. So often when we see people
like adopting rough they're replacing like 20 or 30 tools um with rough and um you know it has
there's a bunch of nice things about it but ultimately it's it's very very fast um and
hopefully a lot simpler for users um yeah but uh good i was gonna say it's really nice that it's
just one tool that brings that all together you know it's not a patchwork well here's how we use
i sort and here's how we use flake gate and here's how we use this and here's how we use that you
now. Right. I think iSort's a really good example because instead of having a, and iSort's a great
tool, but instead of having a separate tool to do your import sorting, Ruff Frames import sorting is
just a lint rule. And so you don't have to learn a bunch of different tools and figure out how to
sort of merge them together. And Ruff, again, when I released it, it was just a side project and
And it sort of took off.
You know, there were, it was originally, you know, I released it in part because I had this thesis that like Python tooling could be much faster and Ruff was meant to evidence that.
It was meant to be an example of what I saw as like this potential to build really different Python tooling.
And took off a couple big projects like FastAPI and such were kind of early adopters.
and it just grew and grew and grew from there.
And I started a company, Astral,
shortly after based on a lot of these ideas.
So again, Ruff in this context was meant to be,
the goal wasn't necessarily to start a company
just based around Ruff.
The goal was to start a company based around
the ideas behind Ruff,
which is can we build really different Python tooling
by, well, it's all written in Rust.
sort of an implementation detail, right?
But ultimately what we're trying to do
is build like really high performance Python tooling,
but also tooling that works together really well
and simplifies things.
So tackle, it's not just about performance.
It's also about tackling a lot of,
I guess what I see as the complexity
in Python tooling today.
And really trying to, I guess,
challenge certain status quos and respect others,
but challenge some status quos
in what it feels like to work with
Python. And so, you know, our focus as a company, you know, right now we're very, very focused on
our open source roadmap and our open source tooling. So that's Ruff, now uv, which we'll
talk about in a bit. And these are, you know, MIT licensed, you know, fully open source tools that
we build. And ultimately, our goal is to build and sell paid services that integrate really well
with the tooling and are kind of like the natural next thing you need when you're building with
Python. So, you know, we'll never charge money for like the tools themselves. Those remain free,
permissively licensed. But our goal is to kind of build, you know, imagine you're building with
Python, you need to deploy a web server. There's a lot of things that you need naturally to do that.
So for people who are already using our tools, what are the natural next things they need and
how can we build really good services on top of the tooling that just integrate with it really
well. So that's kind of the premise of the company. There's like really two focuses to the roadmap.
It's like the open source and the commercial. And our goal is to have an incentive structure where
we're just continuously aligned to like invest a ton in the open source and grow it as much as
possible in a really natural way. So you're not going to do like per line fix pricing,
you get a million, million line fixes a month free. And then no, I think it's, I think it's an
awesome model and you know open source 10 years ago it it really looked like it was already super
vibrant and super making huge uh dents in the space right really a lot of people adopting it
but i think there was kind of a funding side that was a little bit missing i still remember like you
know buy me a coffee type of links like send me 10 bucks yep if you like this and that's just
that's not a job that's hardly a hobby type of of thing to to get stuff done you can't have a team
of people focused on it and it had traditionally really been around kind of a beneficial i need to
find a big tech company that's willing to give me sufficient amount of time to work on this project
to sort of fund its existence.
Or maybe I'm a consultant and I create Flask,
but I consult on Flask, that type of thing, right?
And I think it's just super positive to see
more direct ways people are making open source successful.
Yeah, I appreciate that.
I sort of wish that there were more good examples
of that working.
There are some for sure.
You know, for me, it was pretty clear.
Like it was immediately clear to me.
I needed to be working on a rough full time if I wanted the project to succeed.
And that's kind of a microcosm of the bigger challenge, which is like we wanted to build,
like we really wanted to like professionalize the building of this, you know, the work on
this project and bring in more people to help build it.
And so, you know, ultimately it's not, obviously it's not, it's not charity.
It is venture funding.
and ultimately we need to build a business around the tooling to make it sustainable.
But again, for me, I want the incentive structure to be such that the open source is obviously free,
open source, extremely permissively licensed, and truly open source. We have tons and tons of
contributors we have a huge community around it um uh and um i'm i'm just glad that we've been able
to to you know bring in more people to kind of supercharge the development of it all so yeah so
i guess you talked about you touched on this before but um we're now eight people um so
we've grown you know it was it was uh i guess a year ago it was just me um in march so over the
past yeah our first two uh team members joined actually in march of last year so almost exactly
a year um and yeah we're completely distributed so we're um you know we have people in us pacific
time all the way to bangalore um so we're we're just you know around the like open source like
you know we're kind of all over the world um and uh and just building you know building all this
this stuff out in the open. It's such a good fit to be a distributed company as an open source
with open source roots, because the tools of open source in some degree for software in general,
but especially for open source is asynchronous, semi-connected, you know, kind of the zen of get,
but for the way you work, right? And it makes it super easy to hire just the most engaged people
regardless yeah exactly the people who are willing to commute to my office in the office park
yeah it was um i would be pretty i'd be pretty surprised if a single person i've hired would
have been willing to move to new york which is where i'm based um so uh from that perspective
it was a no-brainer which is um and actually you know multiple people we've hired um our
relationship with them started on the repo um yeah in rough itself um and then almost everyone we've
hired we um discovered through open source in some way or or had some relationship through open
source in some way yeah um so yeah it's been a really it's very much in it's also very much in
the dna of the company um which is uh you know we actually also intentionally try to hire people
who have been maintainers right and have a lot of experience with that too we view that as a
important skill. Yeah, that's excellent. So we talked about rough. One thing I do want to give
a bit of a shout out to is I don't remember. I think I found this on Mastodon. I can't remember
where somebody talked about it, but one of the things that rough does want to change his code,
which is awesome. I love your Ruff format story, but it also just tells you, Hey,
this could be better. You're violating PEP 8. You're violating this other convention or even a
security thing. Right. But the why is the why of that, I think requires a little bit of experience.
Like why should I use this kind of loop or that kind of comprehension over another? Right. It's
people told me that who are much better have been doing this longer. I shouldn't do it. Why?
When you have 700 rules, there's a lot of why.
And so you guys came up with this thing at docs.astral.sh
slash rough slash rules, put in links,
that literally for each one of these has like a little example
and what is good and what is bad and when you should use it and so on.
You want to just tell people about this a bit?
I think it's a massive.
Yeah, totally.
So we didn't have, I mean, we obviously didn't have this
when we started the project.
And then we accumulated a lot of rules.
like we when we decide to add this i think we already had like hundreds of rules um and the
motivation for the format really comes from uh clippy which is the linter used in rust um okay
and they have really rust in general has a really good documentation culture and clippy has this
nice format very similar to ours we've made some adjustments but it's pretty similar around how you
document lint rules like what's the motivation and giving examples um so we were like all right
let's, we want to do this. And we just over a very long period of time and a lot of contributors
contributed on this documentation, but it took like six months or something probably to document.
And now, yeah, now we can, now we require it for all rules. So it's much easier to add going forward,
but it was a huge effort to add this. And you know, some of the explanations too are very
extensive and detailed with lots of references. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I pulled the one up for ISORT,
unsorted imports, which is error I001.
And it also talks about whether it can automatically fix it.
What this does, why is it bad?
So it says things like consistency is good.
Use a common convention for imports to make your code more readable and idiomatic or Pythonic.
And it just gives an example of bad, good.
Right, right.
I think that's nice.
Yeah.
And we've started to put more stuff in here over time too.
whether like in some cases we let users um apply automatic fixes that aren't completely safe like
by opting in like it might change the meaning of your code and you kind of need to be careful and
so over time we've started to document that here too like rules that have unsafe fixes why like in
what case might it break your code and what should you look out for so um yeah we want it to be a
tool with really good, like we're kind of inspired by Rust in this way, because Rust has a really
good documentation culture. And also the Rust compiler itself has really good error messages.
It's sort of famous for that. Like when your code doesn't work, it's really good at telling you why.
I mean, it doesn't always get it right, but it has famously good error messages. And that's
something that we try and channel to, to like, when we make changes to configuration, like just
putting extra effort into trying to make like those, those like error messages and those
hints helpful.
But yeah, it's a lot of work.
So I appreciate you.
I appreciate that you called that.
I'm sure it looks like a lot of work, but it's one of those things that's, you know,
it's where else you're going to get this knowledge, right?
I mean, I know you can go search for one, one, one at a time, but in this aggregates is
really good.
Right, right, right.
So Ruff will fix a lot of these things for you.
And one of the things that I like to do is I just have it integrated into my editor these days.
So both with PyCharm and with VS Code, if I just say format this document, that's a Ruff format.
Nice.
Yeah, yeah.
So we have a VS Code extension, and it supports formatting, autofixing, all that kind of stuff.
The JetBrains one is a third-party one, right? Someone else decided to make that?
Yeah, the JetBrains one is by Kudai. And it's, yeah, that's like a community extension. We're
considering doing our own at some point because there's a lot of demand for, obviously, we have a
lot of users who use the JetBrains stuff. I mean, I use it. So we may do it and do our own at some
but there's a community maintained one right now. And that's based on, we have a sort of like a
language server. So there's kind of like an underlying piece of technology that wraps rough,
that powers all of these editor integrations. So like, you can also use that from like NeoVim
or like Sublime Text or Emacs, like all of those editors support the LSP. And so you can actually,
it's the same thing that powers the VS Code extension, just that's wrapped in some VS Code
specific stuff, but like it's the same piece of technology. and, we're actually rewriting
that right now, to make it sort of like more natively integrated into rough, which will let us
do some cool things. So, it should get like actually significantly better, I think over the
course of this year, cause we just, it's becoming more and more of a priority for us. Yeah. Cool.
The whole LSP thing is pretty interesting. I think it's really opened up a lot of editors being better.
Yeah, it has. And it made it, like from our perspective, it made it way easier to build
like editor integrations because we just built an LSP and then it like works for like everyone,
almost. Like the JetBrains stuff, it does support the LSP, but I think only in the paid version,
not in the community version. So like there's some limitations around it, but in general,
So if you support the LSP, it's actually very easy to build editor integrations that work with everyone, which is super, super useful.
Yeah.
Instead of rebuilding your own integration for every single thing, which is not fun.
That's a lot.
All right.
Well, let's talk about the main project here.
The main reason for being here today is uv.
Tell people what uv is.
This is your next big project, next big tool.
Yes.
Yeah.
uv, we released uv a little under a month ago.
And this is something that I've wanted to do, like, basically, since we started the company,
I wanted to start, I thought there was an opportunity to build some really interesting
tooling in Python packaging.
And uv is kind of the first milestone in that.
So uv, in its current form, it's designed as a sort of drop-in alternative to pip, pip-tools, like if you use pip compile, pip sync, and virtual M.
So it takes those three tools and tries to bundle them into one.
And so it can do things like, you know, given a set of input requirements, generate a requirements.txt file similar to what you get from pip compile.
It can, you know, you can do uv pip install -r requirements.txt, uv pip install black.
So it's really intended right now to be sort of, you know, it won't always, we don't support absolutely 100% of what pip does, but we try to be pretty close.
And so in many cases, the intention is that people can basically drop in uv in their project that uses pip today and get, in many cases, like very, very significant performance improvements.
So similar to Ruff, some of the goals we had for this project were one, it should be very, very fast.
And uv, it's really fast.
In particular, there's like a benchmarks.md in here, actually, if you want to click on that.
Now scroll up.
Does that do it?
Oh, yeah, that works too, I guess.
That was smart of me.
Yeah, so it's really, really fast, especially if you have things cached, which is pretty common. So often on your machine, when you're doing pip install-r, whatever, a lot of those packages, you've probably installed them at least once before on your machine.
Or maybe you deleted your virtual environment and you're recreating it with the exact same dependencies or something like that.
uv is very, very well optimized for that case.
So if you have a package that you're installing multiple times, the installation is effectively free.
And it's also a lot more disk space efficient.
We store all of them in one place and copy them into your virtual environment so that you don't have many, many different copies of the package too.
So this was all kind of taking techniques and inspiration from other ecosystems and other package managers and kind of molding them to fit Python's model for how packaging and dependencies work and all the specifications.
And so again, the end result is like you, you know, installing into a virtual environment, a package that you've already installed before is basically free. And yeah, a lot of these things are just like way, way, way faster. Similar to rough, like dramatically faster. Yeah. And similar to radically.
And I think it's worth pointing out that on one hand, we all have an extra 10 seconds, right?
Or whatever.
But in the aggregate, all of these things are just like little paper cuts over your day.
Yeah, sure, I can format the code.
And I could use something nice and sure if it takes 20 seconds, okay.
But then you stop running it because it's kind of a hassle and you're in your flow.
And this is kind of the same way.
It's like, oh, I want to maybe see if there's some new packages for this project
as I'm sitting down to work on it.
Like, okay, I'll sit, wait for a pip compile to run,
and you wait, and you wait.
And then like, okay, now it's done onto the development version,
And like, you know, it's just some of these things that are instant.
You just ask the question more,
and it just doesn't break your train of thought, you know?
Totally.
I think there's like maybe like three different things are that come to mind here when we think
about performance because like yeah okay in this case like it it may not seem to change your life
if you're going from one second to you know 50 milliseconds but I think three things come to mind
so one like for for for companies and large projects this can actually be like a really big
difference um and so uh if you're at a company and you have like a big monorepo with like a bunch of
sub projects that all have requirements files and you want to bump a dependency that can be like
that at that point you're talking like 15 plus minutes for a command and so like for large the
larger the project gets obviously the more performance matters um and the more the more
it helps out and we're trying to build tooling that can basically scale i don't know about like
to arbitrarily large projects but like two large projects and useful for companies too um you know
The other thing I'd say is I think there's something that happens like when tools, when you make something like way faster, it just changes a lot of the ergonomics around what it's like to do things.
And so, you know, in this case, like, okay, so installing into a virtual environment, a package that you've already installed before is free now.
And so how does that change things?
It's nearly instant.
So how does that change things?
So that means if you mess up your virtual environment and have to delete it and recreate it, it doesn't cost you anything.
It's totally ephemeral.
You can throw it away and recreate it at any time.
And that's just a different, it sounds small, but that's kind of a different relationship to virtual environments than before, where it's like, okay, I created a virtual environment.
Now, oh no, my virtual environment is messed up.
I got to recreate it.
We want to just change a lot of the dynamics around some of those abstractions.
And then the other thing is this performance budget or this, if you think of performance like a budget, this buys us a lot of room.
And so like the fact that we are so fast on some of these things means that we can do things that otherwise might be like prohibitively slow.
And this is more sort of forward looking and for the future.
One thing that we're thinking about a lot right now is this idea of resolving Python dependencies for many platforms.
Because it's a little bit complicated, but pip compile and pip and uv, they're really designed to only work on the current Python platform and the current Python that you're using.
So if you're on macOS and you run pip compile or uv pip compile, it will give you dependencies that are correct for macOS and your current Python version.
But they might be wrong on Windows because in Python, you can have dependencies that vary based on things like the current Python version or the current operating system.
One example would be uvloop.
For people who are trying to speed up.
I think it doesn't work on Windows.
It doesn't work at all on Windows.
That's right.
Yeah.
So that's a very common one.
And it is, I think, very common that this hap that, you know, this is a very common thing.
Like on like lots of really, really popular packages have these kinds of markers.
These were called markers, which basically makes the dependencies conditional based on
the current Python.
And so, you know, like again, like in pip and pip-tools, uv right now just up blocks for
Poetry and I think PDM, but Poetry for sure does this very interesting thing where they actually try to lock, they try to resolve for like all possible platforms.
And that's something, it's really convenient because it means that like you kind of do one lock and then any user anywhere can like use that and it works.
And it's kind of like guaranteed to be right as opposed to maybe it doesn't work on Windows
or whatever else.
And so we're pretty interested in like that, adding that behavior.
And that's going to be like more expensive.
And so if we have something that's really fast right now, it kind of like opens up a
design space of interesting things we can do to solve that problem while still being, you
know, very fast.
So that's kind of how I think about performance.
Like I think it's, I think people like a little bit underrate
how much of an impact it can have on even small interactions.
Cause once you try something that's much faster,
it's often hard to go back to the other thing.
But I'm glad you've had that experience at least.
Yeah, absolutely.
A couple of interesting comments.
Danny says, if it takes 10 seconds,
I go to triage that issue on GitHub
and come back five minutes later, right?
Like that's kind of where I was getting at
with the flow stuff.
it's like okay i'm ready that uh mind wonders and you're kind of like starting yeah right yeah yeah
and then henry out in the audience also says hey henry uh it says it it also this doing things so
quickly it encourages good environment usage because if doing things the right way is just
as easy and as fast as doing the wrong way you might as well yeah that's a nice thought that's a
nice thought yeah yeah it is yeah I mean I think there's um yeah there are certain things though
where like we um we aren't any faster and I am interested in thinking about like those and what
we can do about them like a common one or the most obvious one is um in Python sometimes when you
install a dependency, you might have to build it from source.
And in Python, you often are installing things like NumPy,
which includes some native code.
And so actually turning that into something
that your system can run is kind of expensive.
And you typically don't have to think about this with NumPy
because they ship what are called wheels, which
are kind of like these pre-compiled artifacts.
But not all packages ship wheels.
You could be on a platform that doesn't have a wheel.
For a variety of reasons, you might get the raw NumPy source
code and then have to compile it down into your build distribution.
And for us, if we get into that situation,
it's not going to be any faster because we still
have to build the thing from source just like that.
That's the slowest part of the whole process.
Yeah.
And so there's like some, you know, there are some cases and some bottlenecks where like
it's, I'm kind of thinking about how could we do even better there?
And there are actually things that are changing in the standards that have made this a little
easier.
Like there's this new thing called metadata 2.2.
It sounds cool.
I know.
It's, it basically lets you like read the metadata.
You like metadata 2.1.
Yeah.
If you, yeah, I'm on, I'm at, yeah, we're actually on 2.3 now.
I just get it.
But the point of that is like,
it's a standard that makes it so
you don't have to build the thing as often.
Like if you just want to know the metadata of NumPy,
for example, you may not,
you may no longer need to build it.
And before you did.
And so the standards are moving in a helpful direction here,
but I just thought I'd call it out
because like the source distribution,
there are cases where it won't be faster
and I'm pretty interested in those,
but people should know that they also exist.
There's also, it's not just time,
there's also security issues around that, right?
If things are still based on building source from source
and then running the setup pie to see what the meta is,
it's both slow and also potentially running arbitrary code
just to install a thing, which can make you,
I mean, I don't know, rarely has anything gone wrong
with just installing, running arbitrary code off the internet,
but sometimes it could go wrong.
Yeah, it would be nice to get to a world where that's not required,
or at least for dependency resolution.
And the standards are moving in that direction.
Yeah, exactly.
I mean, if you're going to use it, you're going to have to get it.
But if you just want to know,
well, what versions do I need to put these two things together?
You shouldn't have to do it.
Yeah, exactly.
Because today, for NumPy, for example, if you didn't have a wheel,
you would have to run some arbitrary code to ask it for its dependencies.
Yeah, exactly.
Well, let's talk about some of the usages here.
Let's see some more interesting comments in the chat.
I'll get back to them.
First of all, you know, is it like Highlander the movie?
Should there just be one?
Is uv a thing that I put into, say, my requirements file if I want to use it?
Or do I install it just once for my machine?
Like, what's the scale of uv?
So there's a lot of different ways to install it.
You definitely can install it into a virtual environment.
My general recommendation would be to install it on your machine once
because an interesting thing about uv is you don't need Python to install it.
And it doesn't have, you need to have Python on your machine
because we need to be able to, for example, build source distributions
or know where to install the thing, right?
We have to install into a virtual environment somewhere.
And so you have to have Python installed on your machine, but uv does not depend on Python.
So it can install into arbitrary virtual environments or into arbitrary other Python
interpreters.
So that's why we generally recommend using these standalone installers that we have at
the top of this snippet on the screen.
So they're like the curl and the PowerShell invocations.
those will install a single binary on your machine that's uv.
And from there, you can use uv to install into virtual environments that it creates,
to install into your system Python, to do whatever. So I would say most people,
based on the statistics, based on our download statistics, most people still install uv with pip,
which makes sense which is not that surprising to me um but uh i would generally recommend having
like one uv install on your machine although if you do install into a virtual environment like
that's also totally fine like nothing's going to go wrong um it's just not completely necessary
because a single uv can already install into that virtual environment right you're never going to
import uv no i mean you might but in general people are not going to you i think you can
I'm trying to think what would happen.
It's not like things like pytest and other things.
A lot of times there could be just one of those,
but then you want to use fixtures
and you need to import something out.
So then it really needs to be in the virtual environment
and accessible like a library.
But this is just something you run
maybe even before your virtual environment exists, right?
It really kind of does ideally exist outside it, I think.
Yeah, ideally it exists outside of it.
And there are some cases where you'd want to install it
within the virtual environment,
but ideally it exists outside of it.
The other thing that's nice about using the standalone installers
like at the top here is soon we're going to ship
like a self-update command.
So you can do like uv self-update
and it will update uv to the latest version.
And we can't really support that
if you install it with a different package manager
like pip or Brew.
Those have their own upgrade commands, obviously.
But if you install it with our installer, then we can control the upgrades and stuff like that and provide some other features.
So that's generally what we recommend.
But obviously, we're always going to support installing with pip and stuff, too.
Yeah.
I'm all about pipX these days.
I really like...
Yeah, we're pipX.
That's mine.
Yeah, pipX really...
You can just say, kind of like Peru, you can say, upgrade all my Python CLI tools.
PipX, upgrade all.
you know basically yeah yeah i i find rough and uv is just you guys are moving super fast and
there's frequently an update there are often updates yeah yeah um yeah and then you know the
uv interface like um it's meant to be pretty familiar to or it's meant to be i guess very
hopefully very familiar to people who have used um who are already using pip and other tools um
And so like UVVM creates a virtual environment.
And then we have this sort of pip subcommand.
So like uv pip install flask.
And that doesn't call or use pip in any way.
We're just using pip here to convey what the interface looks like.
And part of the motivation there is at some point in the future,
we probably want to add a new interface to uv
that's a little bit more high level.
So you could think of something like Poetry,
where they have Poetry install.
They have this sort of higher level interface
for interfacing with packages.
We want to do something like that.
And so that's why we left the top level of the interface clear,
because we might kind of integrate and, sorry,
innovate and ship a bunch of stuff
that would otherwise break this interface.
So by putting this stuff under pip,
we basically created this isolated space
where we can make sure that those commands
keep working no matter what we choose to change
in the future.
And it's very similar to pip's interface, right?
It's pip install, and then it could be a package name.
It could be a -r requirements file.
We support editable installs.
We support URL dependencies, get dependencies,
all that kind of stuff.
All the stuff you might normally do, pip install something for the most part, that's the same.
Yep. Yeah, exactly. And we support a lot of the same flags too that pip supports. So like
--index URL, --extra index URL, like --no binary, like all that stuff.
We don't support every flag, but we've put a lot of effort into supporting a lot of them and we've
added more over time. Like now we support like --no build isolation and stuff like that,
that maybe most listeners have never even had to look at.
But these things matter in some circumstances.
And so over time, our goal is to add more of the interface.
But I would say for common use cases,
I would expect that it just works.
Just adding uv at front, it should just work.
Now, as you become more complex, it won't.
And you'll run into some--
We have a whole document of subtle ways that we deviate.
Some are intentional, some I consider bugs,
some we want to fix over time.
But the intention is that for most people,
we want it to just work.
Once we fix the first round of bugs following the release,
of course.
Yeah, sure.
So you've got a UVVENV, VIMP, for creating a virtual environment.
And it has a lot of the flags that Python-MVNV would have,
where you can say, you know,
bring along pip or upgrade things
or set the prompt name,
that kind of stuff, right?
Yeah, exactly.
Yep.
Similar for uv pip and then stuff.
What I find I do for most of my work,
at least if I'm not trying to teach
or do a presentation
where people are like,
what did you just do?
It all have kind of aliases, right?
Like uv pip install -r requirements
on TXT is just PIR,
pip install requirements,
you know, things like that, right?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And so try to just take the common stuff and it doesn't matter if it's pip or uv really backing it from, from my CLI ergonomics, right? I'm just, I use my alias. And if I want to change that, I just go and edit it.
So for me, it was super easy to switch to adopt these things because I'm like, I added my ZSH RC file once and now everything just, I just do the same stuff and it works, but the new way, way faster.
Yeah.
And, you know, this, the goal of like pip compatibility has been interesting because there are, there are actually like some things that we very intentionally want to do differently.
And like, I won't speak for the pip maintainers, like, but I think in some cases, there are probably things that they would do differently too, if they could.
I think so too, yeah.
Yeah, because like pip, I mean, pip's number one, pip is extremely important.
And its number one goal is like, it needs to be like robust, right?
It needs to keep working.
And it needs to be compatible.
And because it's like, it's truly like the cornerstone of like a lot of the Python ecosystem.
And so pip, it's harder for them to change things, especially in a breaking way.
And they have to be really thoughtful and do that over a long period of time.
And so we're in kind of a privileged position, honestly, because we come in with a new tool.
We can actually do a bunch of choose to do things differently.
And some people get upset about it, obviously, because they're like, this isn't exactly how pip does it.
I'm trying to hold firm on some of those things and also be open minded on others.
Right. But like, you know, like one thing that we do that's different, that's I guess maybe it's not evident from this exact from this screen exactly.
Or I guess it sort of is. So when you do UVVM, we default the name dot VM.
So like if you don't provide a name, we just default to dot VM.
And there was a path to make that a standard that got pulled back.
But like it's not like we're trying to make it a standard, but I just think it's a good default.
Like we want to abstract away some of this stuff.
And so you can just like have a virtual,
you can obviously pass a name if you want,
but we default to.vm.
That's different from other tools.
And then, you know, the other thing is
when you do uv pip install,
by default, we require a virtual environment.
And so if you do uv pip install flask
and there's no virtual environment,
like we'll throw, we'll error.
And it doesn't have to be active.
We'll look for it in the current directory,
even if it's not active.
So like if you do uvvm,
then uv pip install flask,
like it will work.
And in my opinion,
it will do the intuitive thing, which is it will install into the environment in the current
directory. So it's like, it's trying to provide a verse up. Like if I'm, I'm a little farther down,
it'll go, Oh, just, Oh, that's amazing. Exactly. So it'll find the virtual environment in the
current directory or any parent directory. so like for me, that's just like a nice default
workflow that, encourages virtual environments and like doesn't get in your
way about it. And we do have a flag for installing outside virtual environments,
but the difference is in uv, you have to opt in if you want to do something like install into the system Python.
It's a very virtual environment first while abstracting away a lot of the details of virtual environments.
So there are things like that where we need intentional decisions.
In my opinion, yeah.
And I think it's nice because we can start with that behavior.
And we're in a privileged position because we can start with different defaults.
yeah for sure so if i do um excuse me if i do a uv venv for a virtual environment
uh-huh um then maybe i uv pip install something
but then uh i forget and i pip install something else does it break is it okay
as in the third time there's no uv well yeah exactly like so i've been uv pipping uv pip
install something uv pip install that and i was oh i forgot this thing there's pip install
oh i forgot the uv to this uh no it shouldn't it shouldn't break assuming so let's say you
activate the virtual environment yeah yeah it's already okay cool so you do uvvm you activate the
virtual environment you do uv pip install flask and then you do pip install black or whatever
that should work just fine because um like the thing that we ultimately create in the virtual
environment like that's all based on standards so like the stuff that we do in the virtual
environment to install packages it should look like roughly indistinguishable from what pip would do
and it's totally interoperable with pip so like similarly if you did pip install and then like
pip install flask and then uv pip uninstall flask like that would work correctly like pip would
install flask and we would remove it because everything that pip and uv are doing in the
virtual environment is based on standards um so the way that we add and remove packages all that
kind of stuff it should be totally interoperable with other tools okay cool pi pi is pretty good
at having analytics around what packages are being downloaded what's popular what platforms
do you do anything like send a user agent or something so that people could answer the question
how many people are using straight pip and how many people are using uv in a year yeah we sent
we set a uv user agent and it's right now it's just uv in the uv version there's an open issue
in the repo from pradyan who works on pip um that outlines all this stuff that pip includes in
its own user agent which we want to add um which is pretty interesting i actually didn't know this
So pip and its user agent includes a lot of things about the current Python platform.
Data that they use in PyPI basically to inform decisions.
Like, oh, no one's using Python.
I don't think this is actually how it's used, but just an example.
Oh, no one's using Python 3.7 anymore.
Let's lower priority on that because no one's installing Python with Python 3.7.
And so we want to add, we don't have that right now.
We're planning to add it.
but yeah, it will be interesting to see
we can get statistics over time too
on like uv and PIP
and how common they are in different dimensions.
Yeah.
You know, one thing that would be kind of fun to have
is I'm not sure if it's at all interesting to you
but to have some kind of cron job or background thing
even if you just interact with uv
if it kind of kicked off sort of a background process
that did its thing
you know, take, take the history of maybe the top 500 packages, plus the ones you you've used and
just kind of keep a cache up to date on your system. So if you're on an airplane or you're
in a coffee shop or for some reason, the internet's not great. Like it, it's kind of pre pre-filled the
cache and everything's there. And then kind of, yeah, that might be, that might be fun.
Yeah, we do have a dashed offline flag, which will like,
it forbids network requests, obviously, but it, so like it'll,
it'll try and do the full install without accessing the network.
Yeah, that's cool.
It would be cool to pre-fill the cache.
Yeah.
It's just like, you know,
if you're a uv user and you sit down on your computer and for some reason
the internet's out, I'm at a conference,
I'm doing a talk and it's got the dreaded terrible conference wifi.
It's not the end of your demo.
It's just like, yeah, see how fast this is.
It's amazing.
Yeah, it's actually funny because the benchmarking, when we do benchmarks, benchmarks can just vary so dramatically based on internet connectivity.
That is often the bottleneck.
I mean, it's clearly not always the bottleneck because we're able to be faster than other tools.
So if it was always the bottleneck, I don't think that wouldn't really be true.
But it matters a lot.
So sometimes I'll throw on macOS, they have a tool called network link conditioner.
So you can actually force like drag your network.
Yeah, you can force it down.
And the categories are like, it's not literally called like bad mobile phone or something,
but that's like basically what it is.
Yeah, it's like it's like it's like very lossy edge network.
Like those are like the pre-built category.
It's pretty funny, but like it is actually that's a very helpful thing for benchmarking.
Sometimes actually, if you have a really good network connection, sometimes it's actually helpful to set that anyway to a pretty good level.
Because then at least it'll be very consistent across your executions.
Anyway, it's something I've learned over time.
Yeah, that is super interesting.
So one of the things I think is interesting to consider here is obviously this is way faster.
I saw some of the announcements and some of the discussion around the
announcements and the people were really surprised how fast this is.
And I think, I don't think Rust is the full answer.
You mean you tell me if I'm wrong, but like one part,
obviously making the code run ultra fast,
that is an important part of it.
But it also seems like you all have rethought some of the internal
algorithms and some of the caching and some of the ways things work, maybe with a fresh take on it,
or you're not constrained by the way it's been done for many, many years. So what elements are
at play to make it as fast as it is? Is it just Rust or is it something else?
So Rust is, Rust is important, but like the way I typically talk about like frame it is that Rust
is kind of like an enabler to writing really fast programs. Like it lets you, it forces you slash lets you
It forces you to/lets you care about certain things that matter a lot for performance that
like in Python, there's actually just no way to care about them.
I'm talking specifically here about memory allocation.
Like in Python, that all just kind of happens.
In Rust, you're forced to think about, am I going to allocate memory here or not?
And when is it going to be deallocated and all that kind of stuff?
And so that unlocks the ability to care and be really careful in how you manage it.
So Rust is like a really important, Rust is an important part of the success story here,
but I think it's like really, I think it would be really like very incorrect to say that it's like
all about Rust and it's not a Rust versus Python thing.
Right.
If we could just recompile pip with Scythe on or something, boom, it would just be,
no, it wouldn't be as big of a deal, right?
If you took pip and just like rewrote it line by line as close as you could in Rust,
like it would probably be faster than pip but it would not be nearly as fast as uv like we just do
a lot of things differently and part of like i guess evidence for this too is like throughout
the development of uv there were like multiple pull requests that sped up like uv as a whole by
like 30 to 50 so what does that say that says that like there's lots of different those were all rust
programs right so like we were able to write the same rust program many times optimizing it more
and more and more um right and so there's there's like so much engineering that went into making it
fast some of it's like how the cache is designed that was like a really important piece and that's
actually something that like pip could also do um and uh i think like it's possible a good outcome
here actually is that like pip is able to take some of these changes and incorporate them over time
and we are kind of the guinea pig for that.
Like we're going to kind of change user expectations
a little bit about how the cache is set up.
Like we're going to run into bugs
about platform compatibility.
based on this cache design, right?
And like hopefully that could at some point
help inform pip if they choose
to redesign their cache this way.
The cache design is a really big thing.
And then just a lot of like profiling the program
figuring out what the bottleneck is, and then solving the bottleneck.
And just really intense engineering work that was not me,
but was other people on the team to optimize some of that.
A good example is, okay, it sounds silly,
but we found that a bottleneck, when all the data is cached
and you're trying to do a resolution, so there's no network requests,
everything's local, one of the bottlenecks that we kept running into
was parsing and comparing version specifiers.
So like in Python, when you have a requirements file, you have like FastAPI is greater than
version one or whatever.
And then in the FastAPI file, you have like FastAPI version 1.0.0, blah, blah, blah.
So like those, like parsing those, and then we were comparing those.
We were doing comparisons between version markers like so many times because it was just
a constant thing in dependency resolution.
It's like, can I use this dependency?
does it fit to this range? So Andrew Gallant from our team rewrote that parser and the version
comparison specifier. And it's one of the most incredible pull requests I've ever seen. Every
commitment is so interesting. And he optimized it so massively that he's basically representing
the version in the end by like a 64 bit, like a U64 integer. And comparisons is just like compare
the two integers. And like, there was just so much engineering that went into it. And it sped up the
cache case by like 30%. And so there's a lot of, there's just a lot of engineering that went into
it. And, you know, again, it's harder for pip to do some of those things because they, the codebases,
they have a lot, they have, they have actual users to support, right?
Like we were able to do this before we launched publicly,
like we could break things, like we can do things, you know,
we can make massive changes to the code base in short periods of time.
So, you know,
we're in kind of a privileged position to be able to really optimize the
performance like that. But, you know,
it's a big part culturally of what we wanted to do too is like,
we're going to make this thing extremely fast.
Yeah. I'm seeing also interesting secondary effects, you know,
talks and not knocks i guess talks talking about using it making it faster uh just now here henry
says build 1.1 is faster from looking at uv and the next version will also add uv as an installer
choice which is pretty impressive yeah that's been a really cool that's actually something i didn't
really anticipate but i'm really glad has happened which is that there's a little bit of like we ended
up building something pretty modular and so there's been a little bit of uh or a lot of like
integrations with uv that people have been building like bernard had the had the tox uv um thing
that was out like within a week i think um which was like use uv to power tox in different ways um
yeah nox i think supports it bill pipa slash build um uh you know i've talked um i've talked to the
hatch maintainer, you know, like he's pretty interested in making uv like an optional backend
for hatch. So like, that's really cool to me because it's all just like magnifying the impact.
And again, I don't know how much of that I anticipated, but it's really cool to see that
like you could plug it into these other tools and they can just like go much faster. So I don't know.
I mean, that's been like, that's actually been like a big highlight from the release, honestly,
has been the reception from like other maintainers of other tools who have been excited to integrate
it in different ways because it's just not that just didn't happen like rough wasn't nearly as much
of a fit for that kind of thing um like there just aren't as nearly there are some but it's just not
as natural to have like integrations with ralph in that way um but for uv it makes a lot of sense
and it's been really cool to see yeah it's more uv is more of a building block than rough is rough
bits and editors and CI and stuff.
Yeah, okay.
Yeah, and there were other tools, but yeah,
it's mostly an end-user thing and not a library, I think.
All right.
So a couple of interesting things out in the audience.
Let's knock them out.
Okay.
So Tushar asks,
and this is, I think, a big tension that's building
in the Python packaging space is,
do packaging tools use Python to do stuff,
where do the packaging tools control the Python?
Who is controlling whom here?
And so Duchar asked,
will uv also install Python sometime soon?
Can I just express,
hey, I want to use 312 on this and these dependencies.
Yeah, we almost certainly want to do this.
I don't think it won't be required.
Like you can still use your own Python,
but we almost certainly want to add Python bootstrapping.
So like, that's another reason why the dream workflow is like you use the standalone uv
installer because then it's like, it will actually install Python for you too.
And so like the reason, so then it's like, you don't have to have Python on your machine
basically to start being productive with uv.
It can just bootstrap the environment for you.
And we can also do, you know, yeah, it would just be nice if you did, you know,
pip compile you like uv pip compile --python 3.13 or something and then we just like
bootstrapped python 3.13 and did the resolution on your machine like that's kind of the
workflow that we're trying to build towards yeah since you're so uv centric as well it could be
uv vnv you know dash that version yeah 100 percent yeah when we bootstrap it yeah if you don't have
if you've got a cache you just give it and if you don't then you you get it on the machine exactly
yeah yeah so we'll definitely we'll definitely do this um again i do think it's important that
it's not like required to use like the uv pythons yeah um uh we actually kind of had to do like a
minimal version of this for um for our ci and testing um so but it was a bash script and then
i think it became a python script but eventually it would be like built into uv yeah yeah yeah i
I think that would be really--
Yeah, I think it would be super cool.
Really quite awesome.
Yeah, I think it will be too.
Let's see.
Tuchar also says, loves that the --require
VNV as a thing.
He thinks it'll become the default,
and also points out for those who don't uv,
that pip require virtual uv as an environment flag
is in your RC file is pretty nice.
I need to do that just the other day.
Yeah, you can.
You can.
I spelled that to the wrong spot.
Yeah, so pip can be configured to require virtual ends.
Yes, absolutely.
I do something weird.
I'm actually looking at my terminal behind our shared
screen meeting here.
And my prompt says global VENV.
And so one of the things that I do is I have a--
just if I log it, if I open up my terminal,
it already has an activated virtual environment
that's just for whatever.
Oh, interesting.
just to avoid messing up your system python just to avoid messing up or so i can have a i can just
make that virtual environment the version of python i want it to be even if it's not the system one
in general that i want to set you know just like it's its own thing and so it wouldn't actually
help me but i still like that because that's smart yeah that's it i mean that's smart
thanks yeah i've learned a lot about like oh my gosh i mean i've learned a lot about packaging
like i didn't know like anything about packaging you know like six months ago i shouldn't i should
actually shouldn't admit that because it's really bad for my credibility but like i've learned a lot
about packaging and in the past like two weeks i've also learned a lot about like system pythons
like how python is installed and like how on like older versions of like debian like python they do
like a lot of customization to Python
that makes it like really different from like
I learned way more about this than I
ever thought I would.
I think it's fine to say that.
I'm out on system Pythons, but we do support them.
Yeah, awesome.
You know, someone asked me
like, no, Michael, you must know
all of the standard library. I'm like, what are you,
crazy? No.
Yeah.
Yes, exactly. And I think it's the same thing about
packaging. There's like so many edge cases.
if you never interact with an edge case and you don't care about that edge case why would you take
the week or whatever to study it like it's just it's irrelevant to you until you need it
and now you've dove in in heads head first here so so then you're you're in we spent so much time
i shouldn't even bring this up but we did okay when we were can whatever i want to tell the
whole story because i need to not but like we did consider like lots of different names for this tool
and multiple times we considered our name
and then it turned out to be a standard library module
that none of us had ever used.
Like I don't know if we wanted to use WAVE, W-A-V-E.
But that's a standard library module.
Yeah, yeah.
I was like, oh, I had no idea.
Is that for working with WAVE audio files?
Probably it is.
Yeah, like WAV files, yeah.
Yeah, interesting.
Yeah, there's a bunch of stuff.
There's the whole dead batteries
and removing certain things that like,
I know it's technically in here.
It's like a library,
but some of these things I had never seen.
yeah well it's naming tools and packages it's a whole special deal and we have half a million
packages in pypi and so how are you gonna not conflict with that have an interesting name
that's not for i'm for typo squatting yeah exactly hard yeah it's a hard problem yeah i don't even
get me started on name stuff someone actually donated this name to us which is very kind of
them oh that's actually very cool very cool all right one other thing i do want to talk about here
um padnish says asked about you know is there a future where rye rye and uv go hand in hand
also great work but maybe just talk a bit about rye that was by armin roeneker and it kind of
had a similar zen as uv but really different yeah so we also we um yeah so we're taking over
like maintainership of rye um and um we we've just been like i think i started talking to armin like
right after rye got released which was pycon last year i think it was during pycon it got released
um and we talked like shortly after and we just found that like we were trying to do a lot of the
we're trying to solve a lot of the same problems and we had like very similar vision for what we
wanted packaging to be. But we were coming at it from very different angles. Rai came
at it from, let's solve the Python bootstrapping problem. So we're going to ship a Rust tool.
Yeah, exactly. And then internally, it was actually using pip-tools and pip to do installs
and resolutions. And then I think the thing that Armin came to realize was if you want
to fulfill this whole vision, you need to reinvent a lot of those internals.
And meanwhile, we were building uv, which was basically those internals.
And I was like, we're going to put a lot of effort into building this packaging stack.
And so we kind of found that it was just a really, we were trying to get to the same place.
And we were putting in a lot of the engineering investment on building a lot of kind of building
blocks.
And we want uv to evolve into something that could fully replace Rye.
So we want it to evolve in that direction.
And in the meantime, we're going to keep maintaining Rye
and kind of using it as a little bit of a test bed
for experimental things.
Armin added pytest support to it, for example.
So we're kind of playing with...
That's meant to be more of an experimental test bed
for the future that we want to achieve.
And over time, we're going to kind of evolve uv
up to the point that hopefully it can fully replace it
and then we can provide a clear migration path for it.
So we're going to keep maintaining it.
It is our intention for uv to like,
to supplant it at some point in the future.
But it'll take us like time for it to get there
and be able to do all the things.
But the visions were just so similar
that it seemed like it made a lot of sense
to try and consolidate and kind of team up on it.
Yeah.
They do seem pretty similar.
And I can see the direction that you're going
and it's going to make them more similar.
Yeah, I know it'll take time.
Like, you know, this release of uv is like,
it really is like the first release, you know?
It's like, I kind of use some of this stuff
as like pretty low level.
Like we wanna build something that feels higher level
and more automatic in the future.
But these are kind of like the ability to install
and uninstall and resolve packages.
These were like the fundamental things we needed
and need for anything we were gonna do.
And so this goal was really, let's take those
and let's put them in a form
useful to people. Yeah, for sure. Well, one more, right question. I have other questions.
So uv will replace Rye. do you recommend using Rye or uv or what's the, what's that side of the
story? Yeah, yeah, yeah. It kind of depends on what you're doing. So like, like Rye uses uv under
the hood. so like Rye uses uv for resolution and installation. So if you're using Rye, you're
using uv. I like I say I consider uv to be like, especially if you're like a company or something,
like I would say uv is production ready for you. Rye, you're buying into a little bit more
of something that's a little bit more experimental. Like I think Rye is a good fit for like
personal projects, hobby projects, libraries, smaller projects. I don't know that I would
like you're just buying into more change i think yeah um and so if you're arguing of your monorepo
that's got a million lines of code and 110 people on it yeah you can certainly you can certainly try
it but you should know that you're buying into something experimental is the way i'd put it
whereas uv like you could also view uv as experimental if you want like it's very new
right like we've we're like when we launched we had i mean i think having issues is actually good
because it means people are using your project,
but we had like hundreds of issues.
And we closed,
and we've closed like hundreds and hundreds of issues
since we launched.
Yeah, you guys have been super,
yeah, you've been super responsive on it.
Like you and I have had some exchanges there.
Yeah, we did.
Yeah, and that's some nice changes I saw going on.
But like I said,
almost every day is a new version.
It's great.
Yeah.
And it's just getting way, way better.
Like that's the thing about developing in private
is like,
like we just,
once we released it,
we finally,
We actually had users who could use it and tell us all the things we missed.
Also, all the things we didn't think about.
It's just like every week getting way better.
So like it's getting more and more stable.
And like I would use it in production for my stuff for sure.
And I recommend it for production.
But like Rye is just a little bit of a different story.
I think with Rye, you know, it's not like we're going to shut it down tomorrow or anything like that.
Like it's going to be it's going to continue to be supported for sure.
But you are, and I think it's branded this way,
which is you are kind of buying into a little bit
of an experimental tool.
Yeah.
Also a bit of a workflow.
Yeah, it's a very opinionated workflow.
Yeah.
Whereas UD is a kind of slot into existing workflows.
Sure.
It's a little more foundational.
Speaking of which, I really like that so many of these tools
have their own, their complete own way.
Like, I know you're going to do that, but we're going to start up our shell and then you're going to run these three commands.
And then we'll have our own lock file and we'll have our own things.
And it's amazing if you drink the Kool-Aid, if you go all in on the tool.
But if you don't, then it's like, okay, well, what is this thing even doing?
It's more in my way than it's helping me, you know, and so on.
So the fact that a lot of a lot of this is kind of baking in the pip-tools way of
there's going to be this external tool that can manage some of your stuff for you,
but it's not prescribing a workflow.
100% props for that. Love it.
Thanks. Yeah, I want it like I wanted to build something that
again, I use this word like modular a lot and I think it can mean different things.
But like rough was kind of like this to like in rough,
you can use it as like just a linter or like just a formatter or both.
and like with uv
you could use uv just to create virtual environments
or just to do dependency
resolution but use pip for
your installer or something
it's designed to be kind of flexible
in how you choose to use it
and I want to
maintain that
I think we'll start to introduce more opinionated
workflows but I think that
we'll continue to provide this
kind of pick and choose
model as well
yeah
yeah i think it's great it lines right up with the way i do things and also i really like it as
both someone who might do presentations either at a conference or in a course or teaching because
you're not putting you know the whole virtual environment stuff is already such a kind of a
large barrier that comes a little early in people's learning path right they're like i want to run
python i want to run this thing whoa you don't just install this you don't just use it you we're
we're going to talk about virtual environments.
Like, I don't care about those.
I just want to run it.
Like, but you're going to need to install something.
So here we go.
Right.
Adding more workflow and more specific ways of working there.
I think while trying to help a lot of times they end up just adding more friction at the
start.
Yeah.
And like, I guess my philosophy there is like, I want us to, I want us to like embrace virtual
environments.
Actually, Rai has this philosophy too, which is like Rai does use virtual environments
and like virtual environments actually have a lot of.
there's a lot of benefits to embracing them like all the editors and such they're all built around
virtual they all are all built around virtual environment detection and stuff like that um
but i wanted to feel i want to feel a little honestly like it has a really bad reputation
but i wanted to feel more like node modules you know where yeah no i agree it just kind of works
and you're it just kind of sits in your project and your project just does the right thing um
and i know people make fun of node modules usually for being big um but like but that's the developer
experience I want, which is you don't think you don't think of the virtual Ironman as this weird
other thing. It's just kind of like the project environment. It just kind of works. And I think,
I think you get that by not like fielding people from it, but abstracting some of it away for
people that don't need to think about it. Yeah, there's a, there was an amazing, it's not a joke,
but it's, I guess something that's a prank that somebody came up with here. I'll put it on the
screen. It's called When Everything Becomes Too Much, the npm Package Chaos of 2024.
And I was just, as you were talking about node modules, it's amazing. So it's more of a statement
of like, well, how super interdependent or how many combinatorial or transitive dependencies
does a couple of npm things have? Like, for example, I used Tailwind, but there was maybe
50 things in my
node module for just using
Tailwind in my project, right?
So anyway, this one is
an npm user named PatrickJS
launched a troll campaign where
a package called everything
depended on every other npm package.
So if you NPM
install everything,
then it literally tried to download
the repository. Yeah, that's kind of
amazing. Wow. I know.
It's devious, but it's
also kind of like, okay, that's
something else yeah i don't know dependency trees tend to be much um like shorter i guess and like
smaller like you tend to have way fewer dependencies um they are sometimes like heavier i guess because
like in python it's very common to have lots of native code um and like i don't know like pytorch
like the pytorch wheels that you download when they're zipped are like between 100 and 200 megabytes
Wow.
Yeah.
Like all the,
all the ML stuff and all the native stuff,
like those are like big,
but,
but the dependent,
but the number of dependencies tends to be a lot smaller.
Yeah.
I totally,
it's also very common to ship like foundational packages with like no
dependencies or very few dependencies,
which is very hard to do.
And in JavaScript.
Yeah,
it is.
It definitely is.
All right.
I think we're getting short on time here.
I think probably should let you go back and knock out another release of
uv i do have to do release today okay thank you awesome cool so tony alianne says been using uv
in production for a couple weeks now awesome seems very excited about it and also i have too it's
an absolute delight it hasn't oh thank you yeah i know there's certain things that it didn't do
like right away but then it it came out and you added them quickly i know there was some criticism
for you all for developing this in private and then releasing it.
And I just want to say, thanks for doing that.
And what's the alternative?
You start with just a blank GitHub repo and people start to say,
well, you should do this.
You should be doing that.
We have a vision.
Let us just get a little structure in place and then we'll open source it.
Give us a month.
I don't know.
I think it's excellent work you're doing.
I appreciate it.
Yeah.
Like I said at the start, it's different.
this time because anything we release like um you know you could work on a rough it's a month and
and nobody cares until it starts to catch some traction right but this is the instant that it
hits yeah we knew people would at least would at least look at it and at least try it and i think
um you know we wanted to make sure that whatever we released first of all was good and second of
all that we were ready to maintain it and i think with packaging too it's like there's just a lot of
it's just such a complex space that like i wanted to make sure that we had a lot of clarity in the
messaging around what the tool is and what it's not and like what we want it to be and what it
isn't yet um and so um i'm really happy with how the launch went and i've really appreciated just
all the um excitement activity engagement that we've had on the repo it's been like i don't know
i mean honestly it's been a lot of work but it's like really really no but it's awesome it's like
so energizing for me um and for the team and to see all the people picking it up and making it the
foundation of their projects and yeah it's really cool yeah and it's cool you know i guess another
like one other thing that's a little different this time is like i talk i just talk to more people who
work on python tooling at companies now than i did when i released rough just because over the course
of the past year i've just met a lot of people and we've just talked about how they're using rough
how they're not and so just hearing some of those stories too of how like companies are starting to
use it and like what the blockers are and like how much of a speed up it's providing has been
pretty cool to see too so yeah i appreciate i appreciate it though yeah you're welcome all
right we'll leave with this final thought from juan i installed 94 libraries in around two seconds
incredible that's great all right yeah all right well i'm excited to see where things go and you
know we'll maybe do a follow-up when when uh you've got some more more of the ideas in place
sounds great no it's always it's always a pleasure thanks so much for having me on i really appreciate
it yeah thanks charlie see you later thanks everyone for listening bye